it's late autumn southern Australia and
there's one thing that we Victorians
have that really gets the blood pumping
southern bluefin tuna absolutely they
are hard fighting tough little creatures
that swim around in the cold water
they're probably mostly seen by
Australians on a TV program that's being
shot out of Japan usually on the floor
of the Tokyo fish market the fish were
chasing a roughly 15 to 30 kilos in size
called school fish but in amongst these
guys there is the odd absolute donkey
over 100 kilos if we find him on our
light little fun sticks we're in a world
of trouble we are going to be in a lot
of pain but still clever boat driving
and a bit of luck on our side and we
might even catch one maybe over 80
around kill us mmm let's go do it its
crack them all day look there we go keep
going there we go what we've got a dub
single we almost had to double their on
the rig out there we go you take that
boys I'll get this gear in see that G
there that the tricks is out with tuna
fishing a lot of guys hook up and stop
the boat we just kept it going and it
turned into a double isn't quite over me
a triple or quadruple I just got to get
this gear in now part of the season we
all have to work together I have to
watch my line and make sure it up and
brought up in any others lord I have to
move the same walk we short shorts
please peaceful the teaser in one handed
you'll notice now pop the gears in took
about 30 seconds to a minute and the
deck of the boat is free ready for
action or chase the swap sides here I'll
show you in this side down in here gasps
the tag pulse everything's ready in
little clips in a crack at the side is
all I need to do now please go one tag
pull out just like that little hand tags
out like that we're going to try and
lift one of these fishing or both of
these fish in the boat everything is at
the ready for us for the boys to do what
they got to do and that's quite these
fish
one tuna in the boat job done without
eating a little purple skirt again one
of my favorite Lewis single hook corner
of the jaw boys will pop the tag into it
just did